---
title: "Improving animal wellfare for Nutrition & Health industry"
date: 2017-07-01
tags: [Artificial Intelligence]
header:
  image: "images/swaine/banner-animal.jpg"
excerpt: "Artificial Intelligence"
mathjax: "true"
---

## Video tracking of animal abnormal behaviors

### Goal of the project
Animal behavioral studies continue to be an active practice, especially due to the role animal plays in working farms and in many industries. 
Avoiding stress of animals and improve animal wellfare becomes to be more and more important. But farmers are not present all the day and night and sometimes they don't know how much stressed are animals. The goal of the project was to equip farms with some video cameras and to detect abnormal behavior such as agressiveness in order to improve animal wellfare.

### My Role
In order to do that, we equiped farm with some cameras and we started to record videos. 
These videos were analyzed by experts to detect what are the different kinds of behaviors and labelled these moments. 
I was the AI engineer of the project, developing the AI model to recognize interesting behaviors.
The model was trained on several hundreds of videos and I used computer vision to split frames of the videos and to recognize some patterns and frames, Then I passed specific frames to a Deep Learning model to check if these patterns were abnormal behaviors.

### Video tracking of animal behavior works
Our solution gave really good results, predicting different kinds of abnormal behaviors with a high accuracy.
The next challenge is to equip farms with videos and to have an internet access everywhere ;)
